# Project 2

For our ETL assignment, we decided to focus on COVID-19 statistics. Using Kaggle, we came upon a deeply detailed collection of six CSVs that charted the disease’s numbers across the globe. After careful examination, we settled on two that had similar columns, but varied on both location scale and length of time. The first CSV set, titled “Worldometer,” presented COVID case numbers for more than 200 countries. It offered a great glimpse into both the present and past of the disease’s effect, in addition to comparing how many cases had people experience serious symptoms. Although the dataset lacked background information on external factors that influenced the number scale in specific countries and or WHO regions, it still provided enough distinct columns to branch out the outcome of each country’s total cases. The second CSV set, titled “usa_county_wise,” focused squarely on cases in the United States and several of its provinces. Unlike the first dataset that had an international scale, this one was domestic, but far more extensive in both location and time. It accounted for day-by-day cases over a six month time period for each state and its full list of counties. With this sheet, extensive analysis can be done to study states that have high case numbers, but more importantly see which county regions account for the highest percentage of the total.

In terms of transformation, we had to do a lot of clean-up on both datasets. For example, the worldometer CSV featured too much breaking up in terms of the status for a country’s total number of cases. It featured numerous columns that provided “new” totals in terms of cases, whether they were active, recovered, serious, or at worst, death. As much as we appreciated the depth of the detail, it was better to make it simplified with a focus just on the general total cases and tests done. Ultimately, we cut a sixteen column file down to fifty percent of its total data displayed. As for the “USA by County” dataset, there was an unusually high amount of columns devoted to geography codes of the United States and its provinces. Since the data that mattered most involved the total cases, we cut down the total columns to an even greater extent than the former “Worldometer” dataset. Through this measure, it made an exorbitantly long day-by-day list much easier to track in terms of just the county and state/province.

For the two CSV files, we used Postgres to load their total data to be conducted for analysis. They were both split into separate tables so a user could choose between their preference of studying COVID on either a domestic or international level. Through both tables, a large abundance of comparisons and contrasts can be made for which locations are either amongst the best or worst in terms of case numbers.
